good afternoon everyone cold here from
e39 source today I will be showing you
how to replace your ignition switch part
number 61 32 6 901 961 available from
Bavarian Autosport or many other one
line resellers today I will be showing
you how to replace this part this part
can cause many issues such as battery
draining airbag lights a lot of weird
things in the cars electrical system so
if you're having some weird things run a
few tests and if you think it's the
ignition switch go ahead replace it
the first step to replacing your
ignition switch is pulling your steering
wheel the whole way up and the whole way
back so you have a lot of access to the
underside of it the next step is getting
a Philips screwdriver and removing the
screw right underneath here after you do
that you can go ahead take your hands
push in on each side and pull this piece
down while pushing this piece up this
piece won't push up much because it
doesn't have a whole lot of room but
mainly work on pulling this piece down
be careful there are a few clips in here
that can break I already have one broken
on the other side from when I replace my
steering wheel i broken clip in my
steering column I will probably be
replacing this plastic in the near
future because that bothers me the next
step is to remove this bottom trim piece
you do this by pressing hitting for tiny
rivets here you can see one right here
one right there one over here one over
there and one over there on the other
side moving through press those in while
pushing pulling this out and just
disconnected from this little leather
strip right around here so you can get
this out of your way once you get that
trim piece out the next step is to pull
this little lever here on the back of
this little switch on the back of the
ignition switch and pull this out toward
you the next step after you remove this
cable is to remove these two t30 torx
screws what you're going to need to do
is there's one down here and there's one
up here right behind this these screws
are holding in this plastic clip
underneath your ignition switch you need
to get this plastic clip out in order to
take your ignition switch out to get
those Torx bits out the bottom one is
fairly simple the top one requires a
little bit more thought and effort
steering wheel's the whole layout you
can see it's still kind of behind there
so you're gonna have to work on an angle
I only have Torx bits on 3/8 inch socket
drives so I'm going to have to work with
a flathead screwdriver and try to get
this out of here once you get those Torx
bolts out by any means necessary you're
going to pull this off well to pull this
off it's quite simple it doesn't come
the whole way off because there's wires
connected to it you're just going to
pull it out kind of like this and move
it out of the way next step is to go
down here look for two tiny red dots
you're going to want to scrape off the
red paint from those dots and let go two
tiny screws don't unscrew them the whole
way just pull them out of this enough
for the ignition switch right here to be
let go once you get those tiny screws
pulled out it should look something very
similar to that what you're going to do
now is you're going to wiggle your
transmission switch out just like this
once you have your ignition switch out
of the car you're going to want to look
for pins that are burnt I don't see any
burnt pins on mine but I've been having
an electrical drain so I decided that
changed my initial switch it's not that
expensive and I just figured it'd be one
less thing that would probably fail in
the future once you get your ignition
switch out of the car go ahead and set
it next to your new one what you're
going to want to do is you can see this
is the old one you're going to want to
take a tiny screwdriver one that's not
too large that'll fit perfectly in here
and you're going to want to orient the
new one to the same orientation as the
old one so when you put it in there it
fits and your key actually goes into the
ignition so once you do that now you're
going to want to just reverse everything
we've done and put everything back
together
the way it should be put back together
just reverse every step I've told you
how to do so far and you should get it
all back together in no time to get
everything back together took me roughly
25 minutes I've taken all this apart and
put it back together several times now
though so it's probably a little bit
faster for me than you if you're a
first-timer doing this so now you can
look at what
sitting on top of your car or wherever
you have it don't set it on your paint
sit it on your sunroof it won't scratch
it you can tell this is the old one
because it has the red dot on it go
ahead put that in the box save it or
throw it away sell it okay I do whatever
you want with it
now hopefully you fixed whatever
electric will gremlin you had with your
e39 thanks for watching I hope you enjoy
the rest of our a39 source content
posted several times a week they see ya